anti-government protests have been
taking place in Israel as the country
marks 6 months since the Hamas attacks
that sparked the conflict Israeli
president isak hatok has called it a
bloody and difficult War many Israelis
are now questioning their government
staging Mass relies urging a deal to
release hostages still being held
captive by Hamas and other groups and
calling for new
elections more this I'm not
by the W Middle East analyst Shan
rosanes Shani 6 months into the war how
are average Israelis feeling about
what's going on it's a very somber day I
mean the mood is very low we've seen the
protest I don't think any Israeli could
have imagined six months ago that Israel
would still be fighting Hamas um so long
and I mean we've just had Israelis just
experience attack attacks missiles
attack from Gaza to the same uh parts of
of land in the southern of Israel just
last week so uh basically back to
zero point back to the same place Hamas
is still far from being defeated in Gaza
Israelis are aware of it uh netan and
his government have promised uh
repeatedly again and again uh they're
going to keep on pursuing uh Hamas until
it's complete inhilation and this is far
from being achieved and also there's
still over 130 Israelis still kept
hostage in Gaza that's of course so a
big part of the national mood and
something that is driving the discourse
about where is the this heading and is
there maybe a need for reconsidering the
strategy Israel has taken so far and
before we go further into that let's uh
have a look back at how all this
unfolded these Festival goers seemingly
oblivious to the exploded Rockets
overhead soon afterwards Panic as Hamas
militants run Rampage at the Nova music
festival in southern
Israel almost
360 young people were killed in this
Attack Just kilometers from the Gaza
border dozens more were
kidnapped at first light on Saturday
October the 7th Hamas began firing a
barrage of rockets from the Gaza Strip
towns in southern Israel such as ashalon
bore the
brunt islamist militants also broke
through Israeli border
fences CCTV footage shows them entering
a kabot but Hamas also filmed the terror
it inflicted on Israeli
communities as well as killing around
1200 people more than 220 were taken
hostage and driven over the border into
Gaza there's mounting evidence some were
subjected to Serious sexual
violence in an audio message Hamas
military commander muhamed de called on
all Palestinians to
fight this video footage shows
Palestinians on the Gaza border
celebrating on top of an Israeli tank
that was said to have been captured by
Hamas there were anti-israel rallies in
the occupied West Bank as well as in
other countries such as
Iran Israel's response was Swift as it
began its bombardment of the Gaza
Strip
with devastating
results citizens of Israel we are at War
not in an operation but at
War Israel's most powerful Ally the
United States offered its total support
good afternoon the United States stands
with Israel we will not ever fail to
have their
back October the
7th a day of
Terror and
Carnage that continues to traumatize
Israel and a day for which Gaza is still
paying the
price at least anal Shan rosanas is
still with me here in the studio shy
there's never any true winner in any war
is there going to be a winner in this
war well hard to say I doubt that I mean
this day October 7th has changed a
region it's changed the status quo um
there was maybe a belief that there
might be a way out of it the Americans
were pushing for a greater deal
connecting also with Saudi Arabia and
other moderate Arab countries for the
region this is still on the table but
nothing's going to move forward without
having any progress in Gaza um and where
we stand now Israel seem to have have
lost you know the connection with
American the ties with American uh
regime government and Biden specifically
that was a strategic asset of the
Israeli and it seemed to have been
weakened same as the public support in
America there's a lot of criticism in
Israel as well as the rest of the world
that's one thing Israel have lost and of
course when it comes to deterrence that
was Israel's biggest you know part of
its of its defense uh apparatus it was a
main pillar the deterrence the the the
feeling that the rest of the world and
mostly the Arab world have had that
nobody should even try attacking Israel
because it's its military might is so
strong having seen that collapse on
October 7th put Israel in a very
precarious position and a lot of what
we've been seeing since when it comes to
the uh severity of the of the response
in Israel comes from the need that
Israelis feel the Israeli mil military
feels to rebuild um that deterrence to
show Israeli might and abilities um
that's um the the thing on the table for
israelies but but Hamas have pulled that
off against the deterrence so is that a
win for Hamas then in a way yes and you
see a lot of support for Kamas going
outside of the Palestinian territory
outside of Gaza I mean a lot of support
for the IDE of Hamas and for the
operation of Hamas for its ability to
finally defeat the mighty Israel to
bring such a blow to Israel but at the
same time Hamas also have lost a lot of
support within Gaza and Gaza was this
territory where Hamas managed to execute
uh uh political Islam in a way that
hasn't been you know experienced before
and it was also seemed to be leading the
Palestinian cause and now all of that
has been jeopardized and probably we're
not going to see Hamas in a political
role as far as the International
Community and you know we're looking at
the plans ahead definitely when it comes
to Israel we'll never let let that
happen so they have also lost that and I
think they've also lost another key
issue now they were expecting bigger
solidarity much more um you know when it
comes to the the the Arabs Palestinians
living within Israel also what's
happening in the West Bank of course
there's a lot of Oppression a lot of of
Israeli military actions trying to
prevent that but the fact that Hamas is
actually not manage to make this a wider
Regional uh conflict that's somewhat of
a as well to
Hamas and uh as we are moving forward
with this you know no end in sight uh
both sides might need to maybe
acknowledge these Lawes in order to be
able to try to find a way out of this
terrible tragic situation Shan rosanes
thank you very
much